---
layout: post
title: "Day 16 of Code Fellows Bootcamp"
date: 2013-10-28 12:13:59 -0700
comments: true
categories:
- Code Fellows
- bootcamp
---
October 28th, 2013

  Beginning week four. Last Thursday, they told us that that was the last day
of 'class', and I took that to mean the last day of lecture. To which my
response was 'OMG WAT?!' And thinking about it, I was both relieved and
distressed to realize that meant we'd be spending all day every day working
on our class projects. And as for lecture, they had already taught us what we
needed to know for the silver level bootcamp. Terrifying indeed.

  Interestingly, I don't actually have time to be terrified. I'm too busy
working on each assignment, learning what I need to learn, and then
implementing it. Writing up some notes on it, checking it in, and moving on
to the next one. And, alternately, not quite successfully implementing the
new idea, having still I don't know much much left to implement, once I've
learned what I missed. This may be a tiny bit (oh please oh please oh please)
or this may be a lot. I really don't know. I have two assignments currently
in this state, coming in to Monday morning. But the thing is, I simply have
to move on to the next bit of learning and implementatation. If I stop, I'm
doomed.

  Going into this morning with, again, not enough sleep, but as long as I'm
productive it is hard to give in to my nice soft bed. When I have just one
more little bit of code that if I tweak just right, everything will work.
Right....?

  Thinking about things outside of boot camp is getting very hard. Right now
the learning is taking over my braaaaain.
