---
layout: post
title: "Who Am I?"
date: 2013-02-01 22:43:52 -0800
comments: true
categories: 
---
-----------
  OUTLINE
-----------

Title: "Who are you?" and "What do you want?"

1. intro - name, handle

2. I am mare

3. I am mama

4. I am geeky

5. I am becoming a ruby on rails dev


-------------
 FIRST DRAFT
-------------

"Who are you?" and "What do you want?"

Hello old friends.  Hello new friends.  Hello colleagues.  Hello young learners.  Hello respected professionals.  I am the GeekyMamaMare.  Welcome to my blog.  Please enjoy sharing my journey of re-discovering my passion in technology and re-directing (re-purposing?) my career from software testing to software development.  A wordy intro statement indeed, but very relevant to my journey as you will see in time.  Let's start by looking at who I am now.  The most important aspects of my life all fall into three categories.  My horses, my family, and my geekiness.  Everything I do in life ties into at least one of these.  

I've been involved with horses my entire life.  They inspire me.  I love them deeply and their presence in my life is one of the foundations of my happiness and life satisfaction.  After hoping and planning from my early to mid-teens, I finally have my dream ranch and my horse breeding program.  I am working toward breeding honest, clever, and well-moving young horses that will, I hope, become that long sought after equine partner for the aspiring rider looking for just the right equine friend.  A challenging goal.  Intelligent horses can be a wonderful challenge to raise, but very rewarding as well.  My careful breeding choices are taking care of the intelligence and athleticism.  The daily focus of to raise and train up the youngsters in a loving but disciplined environment to produce and nurture their good and willing nature.

I am blessed with a wonderful family.  Most of all, by my son.  I am absolutely biased as any mother would be.  I find my son to be beautiful, very bright, energetic, loving and kind, gentle, a great adventuring partner, and a delight to watch learn and grow.  I am also incredibly lucky in that he seems to share my love of horses and things geeky.  I felt like I won the baby lottery when he was born back in 2009 and have felt that even more so as the years pass.  Certainly, he goes through the various challenges and foibles of every youngster, but I still feel like we have an easier time of it than most, and am very grateful to be so blessed.  I am also fortunate, especially in this journey of re-discovery, to have an understanding and supportive family.  It can be very difficult to change a career in midlife, especially with all the learning, studying, and growing that are involved in that process.  They were very worried about me as I realized I'd lost my passion in technology.  And now they are encouraging, patient, and supportive as I learn and grow.  It can be very hard for the family at such a time.  I am so glad that they are behind me all the way.  I am very lucky.  I could be making these changes without their support.

In some ways, I was very sheltered while growing up in California's San Joaquin valley.  I had my horses, my books, a few friends, and a hugely active imagination.  I was mostly busy in my own world of pretend, but not too much so.  I was an adequate student without trying.  I was somewhat social as well as somewhat athletic.  I was also a voracious reader.  This last was probably what led me to declare myself "weird" in ninth grade.  I'm not sure what I was going for at the time, but in hindsight, I was very right.  It was hard to be interested in elclectic, odd, and alternative things in the area where I grew up, since mainstream culture was almost all that was available.  But libraries were a good friend to me and my active imagination combined with new ideas and worlds and creatures from books allowed me to explore my "weirdness" or what I now call my geekiness.  As an adult, I moved to the San Francisco Bay Area and eventually to Santa Cruz where I found many other geeky people and interests to pursue.  I discovered Sci Fi/Fantasy conventions, the SCA, gaming, electronics, and so much more.  I worked hard at the local community college getting my core classes out of the way, then transferred to UC Santa Cruz, where I discovered that instead of majoring in programming, I could major in computer engineering, playing with chips, resistors, capacitors, and wiring, while taking programming classes as upper division electives.  So much fun!  I am still an electronics hobbiest and delight in pulling out my old soldering gun.

When just beginning my career with computers, there was a huge hiring freeze all through Silicon Valley.  This made finding a programming job very difficult for someone still in college.  I got an opportunity, but it started me on the path of software testing instead of programming.  I was initially a little unsatisfied, but eventually grew to love breaking software.  This satisfied me for a long while.  But eventually it was not enough.  I eventually landed my dream job in testing.  I was working with a product that I respected, with technology I enjoyed, with colleagues that were fun and challenging to work with, creating a product that was making a real difference in the world.  But it was a very small company.  And small companies must grow.  And when small companies grow, they change.  And often, those changes create a culture and a company mission that was not what it once was.  Parting with my dream job in the end was painful and made me quesion myself, my abilities, and my passion in technology entirely.  I spent that next year pursuing interests around my family and my horses in order to recover, since I was in no condition to market myself to a new company.  I eventually found my balance again, updated and polished up the ole resume, and dove into the job search.  I was ready to return to work.  I thought.  But as the weeks and then months passed, none of the job listings seemed right.  They were looking for skills I neither had nor wanted, or were working on things that held no interest.  I felt my passion for technology falling to the wayside, in the face of the drab, the mundane, the stultifying.  It was a low moment indeed.

...visit from old friend, talking hardware, b'day gift of LED clock...

Spring brought with it one of the local science fiction conventions.  There were several panels that got me thingking about women in technology, networking within my industry, and how to re-find my passion in technology.  I decided it was time to pick back up my long abandoned pursuit of programming and to start networking with other women in technology for mutual support and growth.  I had dabbled with Ruby a couple of years ago at the recommendation of a friend and colleague, so I decided on Ruby on Rails as a good and enjoyable path toward my goal.  I joined several relevent local meetup groups and then I learned of She's Geeky 13, Seattle.  Attending this un-conference made all the difference in the world and confirmed the wisdom of my ideas.  I finalized my plan for re-purposing my career with the attendant studying, learning, networking needed  over the next several months to change my career from being a 20 year software tester, to being a newby Ruby on Rails developer.  